Version 1.293

--------------------
Detailed Information
--------------------

POE is bigger than this README.  Please see http://poe.perl.org/ for
more information.

---------------------
Documentation Roadmap
---------------------

POE includes a lot of documentation.  The main POE man page includes
references to everything else.

POE has been around for a while.  The CHANGES file has been limited to
changes in the past year to help keep the distribution size down.
POE's web site includes a complete change history broken down by
release.

--------------
Installing POE
--------------

POE can be installed through the CPAN or CPANPLUS shell in the usual
manner.

  % perl -MCPAN -e shell
  cpan> install POE

Or

  % cpan -i POE

http://poe.perl.org/?Where_to_Get_POE explains other options for
obtaining POE, including anonymous Subversion access.

------------
Test Results
------------

The CPAN Testers are a group of volunteers who test new CPAN
distributions on a number of platforms.  You can see their test
results at: http://testers.cpan.org/search?request=dist&dist=POE

POE's ongoing improvement relies on your feedback.  You file bug
reports, feature requests, and even success stories by e-mailing
<bug-POE@rt.cpan.org>.

-------------
Test Coverage
-------------

POE's tests cover a significant portion of the distribution.  A
thumbnail sketch of POE's test coverage is available, but do not use
it as an accurate gauge of quality.

  http://poe.perl.org/?POE's_test_coverage_report

-----------
What POE Is
-----------

POE is an event-driven networking and multitasking framework for Perl.
It has been in active development since 1996, with its first open
release in 1998.  O'Reilly's "The Perl Conference" (now OSCON's Perl
track) named POE "Best New Module" in 1999.

POE has been used in mission-critical systems such as internetworked
financial markets, file systems, commerce and application servers.  It
has been used in projects ranging from a few lines of code to tens of
thousands.

POE is compatible with perl versions as old as 5.005_03.  This may
change as it becomes harder to support old versions of Perl over time.

POE includes an evolving component framework.  Components are
high-level, modular, reusable pieces of programs.  Several components
have been published on the CPAN, and more are listed on POE's web
site.  See: http://search.cpan.org/search?query=POE&mode=dist

POE includes components and libraries for making quick work of network
clients, servers, and peers.  A simple stand-alone web application
takes about 30 lines of code, most of which is your own custom logic.

----
Bye!
----

Thanks for reading!

-- 
Rocco Caputo / rcaputo@cpan.org / http://poe.perl.org/
