# $Header$

=pod

=head1 NAME

POE - multitasking and networking framework for perl


=head1 DATE

$Date$

=head1 SYNOPSIS

For ease of access, the POE manual has been broken up into several sections:

=head2 Introductions and Tutorials

=over 4 

=item L<poe> 

POE overview (this section)

=item L<poeintro> 

POE general concepts and introduction

=back

=head2 POE Syntax and Usage

=over 4

=item L<poesyntax> 

POE syntax and general usage

=item L<poestyle> 

POE coding style thoughts and suggestions

=back

=head2 Guts and Twiddly Bits

=over 4

=item L<poealarms>

POE alarms and their usage

=item L<poellio>

POE Low-Level I/O

=item L<poesess>

POE sessions and their innerworkings

=item L<poesigs>

POE signals and their usage

=back

=head2 Design and Theory

=over 4

=item L<poedesign>       

POE Design and other grand paintings

=back

=head2 WWW Links

=over 4

=item L<http://poe.perl.org>

The POE Website

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

POE is an acronym of "Persistent Object Environment".  It originally
was designed as the core of a persistent object server and runtime
environment, but it's evolved into a general purpose application (as
opposed to system) kernel.

POE's core contains two types of module.  First there's POE::Kernel;
this is the main resource manager and event loop.  Second are the
sessions or state machines which implement the actual threads.  The
sessions are POE::Session (not quite a proper state machine) and
POE::NFA.

The remainder of this distribution consists of convenience and helper
modules, most of which aren't required to begin using POE.



=head1 SAMPLE PROGRAMS

This distribution contains 28 example and/or tutorial programs in the
archive's ./samples directory.  Be advised, however, that many of them
date from the early days of POE's development and may not exhibit the
best coding practices.

The author's always looking for new example ideas.




=head1 COMPATIBILITY ISSUES

POE has tested favorably on as many Perl versions as the author can
find or harass people into trying.  This includes Linux, FreeBSD, OS/2,
Solaris, and at least one unspecified version of Windows.  As far as 
anyone can tell, nobody ever has tried it on any version of MacOS.

POE has been tested with Perl versions as far back as 5.004_03 and as
recent as 5.6.1.  The CPAN testers are a wonderful bunch of people who
have dedicated resources to running new modules on a variety of
platforms.  The latest POE tests are visible at
L<http://testers.cpan.org/search?request=dist&dist=POE>.  Thanks,
people!

Please let the author know of breakage or success that hasn't been
covered already.  Thanks!

=head2 Specific issues

=over 4

=item Various Unices

No known problems.

=item OS/2

No known problems.  POE has no OS/2 tester starting with version
0.1206.

=item Windows

Windows support lapsed between version 0.0806 and 0.0903 when Sean
Puckett ran out of time to pursue it and Douglas Couch found time for
it.  Douglas now maintains POE's Windows code, as well as the
ActiveState PPM and HTML documentation available at
L<http://poe.sourceforge.net/>.

Newer versions of ActiveState Perl for Windows have broken
non-blocking socket() calls.  See these URLs:

L<http://bugs.activestate.com/cgi-bin/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=14518>

L<http://bugs.activestate.com/cgi-bin/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=14560>

=item MacOS

I have heard rumors from MacOS users that POE might work with MacPerl,
but so far nobody has stepped forward with an actual status report.
I'd be happy to hear either way.

=back



=head1 SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

POE's module recommendations have been codified as part of the `make
test' procedure.  Any missing dependencies will be reported on, and
POE will refuse to test itself if critical modules aren't found.

Some of POE's sample programs use fork().  They won't work wherever
fork() isn't available; sorry.

POE relies heavily on constants in the POSIX module.  Some of the
constants aren't defined by ActiveState Perl for Windows, but POE
defines them itself to work around this.

POE::Preprocessor needs Filter::Util::Call version 1.18 or later for
source filtering.  Everything else relies on POE::Preprocessor.

Some of POE's sample programs require a recent IO bundle, but you get
that for free with recent versions of Perl.

Filter::Reference needs Storable or FreezeThaw or some other data
freezer/thawer package.  Storable tends to be the fastest, and so it's
preferred.  Compress::Zlib is needed if you want to compress frozen
data.

B<Important Filter::Reference note:> If you're using Filter::Reference
to pass data to another machine, make sure every machine has the same
versions of the same libraries.  Subtle differences, even in different
versions of modules like Storable, can cause mysterious errors when
data is reconstituted at the receiving end.  Whe all else fails,
upgrade to the latest versions.

Filter::HTTPD uses a small world of modules including HTTP::Status;
HTTP::Request; HTTP::Date and URI::URL.  The httpd.perl sample program
uses Filter::HTTPD, which uses all that other stuff.

Wheel::Curses requires the Curses module, which in turn requires some
sort of curses library.




=head1 SUPPORT RESOURCES

These are Internet resources where you may find more information about
POE.


=head2 The POE Mailing List

POE has a mailing list at perl.org.  You can receive subscription
information by sending e-mail:

  To: poe-help@perl.org
  Subject: (anything will do)

  The message body is ignored.

All forms of feedback are welcome.

=head2 The POE Web Site

POE has a web site where the latest development snapshot, along with
the Changes file and other stuff may be found: L<http://poe.perl.org/>

=head2 SourceForge

POE's development has moved to SourceForge as an experiment in project
management.  You can reach POE's project summary page at
L<http://sourceforge.net/projects/poe/>


=head1 TODO

Aliases, and any other subsystem/API that's missing.

Wheels.

Components?

=head1 LICENSE

Except where otherwise noted, POE is Copyright 1998-2001 Rocco Caputo. 
All rights reserved.  POE is free software; you may redistribute it 
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

This documentation is Copyright (C) 2001 by Matt Cashner and is
available under the MIT License.

A host of people have contributed to POE over the years. Their 
contributions remain under their copyright. Please see 
L<the "poethanks" manpage|poethanks> for a list of contributors and their copyrights.

=cut

