# $Header$

=head1 NAME

poethanks - props to ma peeps

=head1 DATE

$Date$

=head1 DESCRIPTION

POE is the combined effort of more people than I can remember
sometimes.  If I've forgotten someone, please let me know.

=head2 Rocco Caputo

Rocco Caputo is <troc+poe@netrus.net>.  POE is his brainchild.

Except where otherwise noted, POE is Copyright 1998-2001 Rocco Caputo.
All rights reserved.  POE is free software; you may redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head2 Arnar M. Hrafnkelsson

Arnar is <addi@umich.edu>.  Addi tested POE and POE::Component::IRC on
Windows, finding bugs and testing fixes.  He appears throughout the
Changes file.

=head2 Artur Bergman

Artur Bergman is <artur@vogon-solutions.com>.  He contributed many
hours' work into POE and quite a lot of ideas.  Years later, I decide
he's right and actually implement them.

Artur is the author of Filter::HTTPD and Filter::Reference, as well as
bits and pieces throughout POE.  His intangible contributions include
feedback, testing, conceptual planning and inspiration.  POE would
never have come this far without his support.

=head2 Douglas Couch

Douglas Couch is <dscouch@purdue.edu>.  Douglas maintains POE for
Windows, as well as the latest PPM and online documentation at
<http://poe.sourceforge.net/>.  Rockin'!

=head2 Philip Gwyn

Philip Gwyn is <gwynp@artware.qc.ca>.  He extended the Wheels I/O
abstraction to support hot-swappable filters, and he eventually
convinced me of the utility of unique session and kernel IDs.  They
rock, by the way, and I'm sorry I didn't apply his patches sooner.

Philip also enhanced Filter::Reference to support different
serialization methods.  His intangible contributions include the
discovery and/or destruction of several bugs (see the Changes file)
and a thorough code review around version 0.06.

=head2 Dave Paris

Dave Paris is <dparis@w3works.com>.  Dave tested and benchmarked POE
around version 0.05, discovering some subtle (and not so subtle)
timing problems.  The pre-forking server sample was his idea.
Versions 0.06 and later should scale to higher loads because of his
work.  His intangible contributions include lots of testing and
feedback, much of which is tagged in the Changes file as a-mused.

And I do mean *lots* of testing.  I go and announce a new development
version, and he's, like, "All tests passed!" just a few minutes later.
If that wasn't enough, he investigates any bugs that turn up, and
often fixes them.  The man's scarily good.

=head2 Dieter Pearcey

Dieter Pearcey is <dieter@bullfrog.perlhacker.org>.  He goes by
several Japanese nicknames.  Dieter patched Wheel::FollowTail to be
more useful.  His Filter contributions include the basic Block filter,
as well as Stackable, RecordBlock, Grep and Map.

=head2 Robert Seifer

Robert Seifer is <e-mail unknown>.  He rotates IRC nicknames
regularly.

Robert contributed entirely too much time, both his own and his
computers, towards the detection and eradication of a memory
corruption bug that POE tickled in earlier Perl versions.  In the end,
his work produced a simple compile-time hack that worked around a
problem relating to anonymous subs, scope and @{} processing.

In short, he squashed a coredump with a reliable work-around.

=head2 Dennis Taylor

Dennis Taylor is <dennis@funkplanet.com>.  Dennis has been testing,
debugging and patching bits here and there, such as Filter::Line which
he improved by leaps in 0.1102.  He's also the author of
POE::Component::IRC, which isn't included here but may be found at
either L<http://www.infobot.org/dev/POE/>.

=head2 Andrew Chen

Andrew Chen is achen-poe@micropixel.com. Andrew contributes much 
needed testing for Solaris on the SPARC and Windows 2000.  

=head2 Matt Cashner

Matt Cashner is eek@eekeek.org and aka C<sungo>.

=head2 Richard Soderberg

Richard Soderberg is poe@crystalflame.net and aka C<coral>. 

=head2 Ann Barcomb

Ann Barcomb is kudra@domaintje.com and aka C<kudra>. Ann contributed large 
portions of poesimple and is a major driving force behind the 
POE::Simple movement.

=head2 Jos Boumans

Jos Boumans is boumans@frg.eur.nl and aka C<Co-Kane>. Jos is a major 
driving force behind the POE::Simple movement and is one of the POE 
idea fairies. Jos is also always available on IRC for the wizards to 
bounce ideas off of for a fresh perspective.

=head2 Others?

Please contact the author if you've been forgotten.


